Hi and welcome back,
well to actually do any machine learning,
you need to have some data.
Where do you get that data, well in
production ML it turns out you usually
have to find ways to collect that data,
and we'll talk all about that right now.
Now let's discuss collecting data and
a little bit about the importance of data,
to first let me tell you a story about
an application that I was involved in.
We were asked to create a model to
predict the amount of time that it would
take to get through an airport
security checkpoint on different days
at different times with different lines
of different lengths and so forth.
So we need a data, and how are we
going to get that data, well we had to
measure how long it took people to
get through security checkpoints.
How are we going to measure that, well,
what it came up with is we had to
actually go to the airport, we had to
get someone cleared through security
because anything you do in an airport
has to be approved by the security.
We had one person standing at
the beginning of the line to get into
a security checkpoint and they would
record the time that somebody entered.
And then we had another person standing at
the other end, the exit of the checkpoint,
and actually they were far
enough away from each other.
They couldn't even see each other, and
they would record the time
that each person left.
And in that way we would gradually build
up a data set of labeled data that gave us
the amount of time that people took to get
through an airport security checkpoint.
Well, as you can imagine,
it was incredibly painful,
we had to develop applications just
to support being able to do that.
And it was incredibly expensive,
we had to pay people they had to be
cleared through security and so forth.
So when we talk about collecting
data in the real world,
hopefully you're not going to
deal with a situation like that.
But it will be a real world situation
where you need to think about how you're
going to get the data you need unless,
you're very lucky and
somebody already has the data for
you, which is great.
And if that's the case, that's wonderful,
so let's start by discussing
the importance of data and
the importance of data quality.
It's your your data and
your model is only going to be good
as good as the quality of your data.
If there's a lot of noise in your data,
then you need to try to deal with that,
if the labels especially are noisy,
then there you have to find ways
to try to clear up that signal.
We're going to be using data pipelines
almost exclusively because remember we
need to automate these processes.
So we're going to need data collection and
then in our pipeline we're
going to ingest and prepare.
Our data has sequenced automated tasks,
and
we're going to need to
monitor data collection.
So remember for most applications,
you don't just collect data once
you are going to collect data throughout
the lifetime of that application.
As we've seen,
data is the hardest part of ML and
the most important piece to get right.
This is a quote from Uber,
broken data is the most common cause
of problems in production ML systems.
Well, i hope you never have
to learn that the hard way,
Gojek has similar feelings about that.
And really if you go to just about
any production machine learning team,
they'll tell you stories
about collecting data and and
how important it is to get the data right.
In programming language design,
a first called citizen is a in a given
programming language is an entity
which supports all the operations
generally available to other entities,
and an ML data is a first class citizen.
So software one data was all about code,
it's it's really just,
the instructions for the computer,
in software two dato,
we need to specify a goal and
for the behavior of the program,
the code is important, but
not the only thing that we worry about,
optimization is really
the driving force here.
So optimization in a lot
of different directions.
So we want to optimize for performance,
obviously what we want to optimize for
maintain ability and scalability as well.
And for ML data is data
quality is really critical for
success, so
in some ways you could look at it as,
data is is almost like
the software almost like a code
in a software window
application data is is sort of
a similar sort of player
in an ML application.
So the cartoon on the right
shows one way to look at this,
you I'll let you read there by yourself,
but models aren't magic.
So it's good for
you to know that the data that you have,
you could have mountains of data, but if
it if it doesn't have predictive content,
then, you're just not going to be able
to create a predictive model with it.
So there's a couple things here, you you
want to remove information from your
model and features from your
model that aren't predictive,
because they're going to cause problems
are certainly going to take a lot of
compute resources that you don't
want to be spending on that.
And you need to make sure
supervised learning case or
even unsupervised learning,
that your training data is really
covering the same feature space as the as
the prediction requests that you'll get
when you put your model into production.
You need to cover that same space so
that your model has good
information about the regions of
that space to make predictions and,
just like anything,
it's garbage in and garbage out.
So if your data is garbage,
if your data quality is low your model and
your application will, be low quality.
The good news actually for
ML is that we can measure that in
a lot of software applications.
You, it might not be as easy to measure
how bad your solution or good your
solution is doing, but in the end well
it's it's pretty easy to measure that.
So data collection is an important and
critical first step to
building ml systems and data.
You want to avoid problems with downtime,
you need to make sure that your
training a model that you can scale,
that you can serve predictions and
you need to think about, especially for
things like time series, you have
things like seasonality and trends.
You need to think about
different kinds of errors and
what we'll talk about all of these.
But it's this whole picture that you
need to sort of keep in your mind when
you're you're developing things that
it's going to be an entire process,
from ingestion through serving and
that all has to be automated.
It all has to be testable and
maintainable and scale well and so forth,
so you need to understand your users and
you need to make sure
that you're translating the user
needs into data problems.
You don't want to just do
the model that you happen
to have if it doesn't meet
the needs of the user.
You need to make sure that your data
covers the same region of your feature
space as the prediction request that
you'll get your training data and you want
to make sure that you've really maximize
the predictive signal in that data.
And you need to worry about the data
quality not just at the beginning but
throughout the life of the application.
So part of that is making sure that
your sourcing data responsibly and
you're thinking about things like bias and
fairness,
which we will talk about
later on in this course.